"bcr_number","bcr_name","bcr_description"
1,"Aleutian/Bering Sea Islands","The Aleutian Islands extend 1,100 miles westward from Alaska, plus Bering Sea islands including the Pribilofs. This volcanic region has a maritime climate with constant wind. Vegetation includes dwarf shrubs, meadows, and marshes. Sea ice affects the Bering Sea but not the Aleutians. Seabirds dominate, with several species breeding only here, including Red-legged Kittiwake and Least Auklet. The region hosts the only endemic Alaskan bird, McKay's Bunting. Breeding diversity of songbirds and shorebirds is low due to harsh conditions."
2,"Western Alaska","This region covers western Alaska's coastal plain and Alaska Peninsula Mountains. Wetlands, ponds, and rivers dominate the landscape with continuous permafrost except in southern areas. The Yukon and Kuskokwim coastal plains support high densities of breeding waterfowl and shorebirds. Alaska Peninsula coasts host millions of migrating shorebirds and concentrations of wintering sea ducks like Steller's Eider. Tall shrub habitats along rivers support diverse songbirds. Sea cliffs provide nesting sites for seabirds including kittiwakes and murres."
3,"Arctic Plains and Mountains","This region spans the northern edge of North America, featuring coastal tundra and Arctic mountains. Thick permafrost creates a landscape where 20-50% is surface water, forming polygonal ponds and ridges. The ocean freezes 9-10 months yearly. Waterfowl and shorebirds dominate the bird community due to abundant wetlands. Common breeding species include Northern Pintail, King Eider, American Golden-Plover, and Lapland Longspur. Old World species like Arctic Warbler reach the region from the west. Few birds winter here due to extreme conditions."
4,"Northwestern Interior Forest","This region features diverse forest habitats dominated by white spruce, black spruce, poplars, and paper birch, created by elevation, permafrost, water, fire, and terrain variations. Tall shrubs occur along rivers, with bogs common in lowlands and alpine scrub in mountains. The area supports breeding ducks, swans, and shorebirds in wetlands. Forests host diverse songbirds including warblers, thrushes, and sparrows. Coastal areas provide important stopover sites for migrating shorebirds. High elevations support species like Horned Lark and American Pipit."
5,"Northern Pacific Rainforest","This coastal rainforest stretches from Alaska to northern California, characterized by heavy precipitation and mild temperatures. Dominated by western hemlock, Sitka spruce, and other conifers, with redwoods in the south. Priority forest birds include Spotted Owl, Marbled Murrelet, and Hermit Warbler. Coastal wetlands provide critical habitat for waterfowl and migrating shorebirds, especially Western Sandpipers. Offshore islands support major seabird colonies including Ancient Murrelet and Tufted Puffin. Nearshore waters host breeding and wintering sea ducks."
6,"Boreal Taiga Plains","Dominated by the Mackenzie River system in the north and boreal transition zone in the south. Northern areas have open coniferous forests with black spruce, while southern areas support mixed-wood forests. Wetlands cover 25-50% of the region, with seasonal waterlogging due to permafrost. Important birds include Whooping Crane, American White Pelican, and Sharp-tailed Grouse. The Mackenzie Valley forms one of North America's most important migratory corridors for waterfowl breeding along the Arctic Coast."
7,"Taiga Shield and Hudson Plains","Includes the world's largest wetland area - the Hudson Plains - extending onto the Canadian Shield. The subarctic climate features short, cool summers and very cold winters. Hudson Plains support dense sedge-moss-lichen covers with scattered black spruce and tamarack. The Shield has mixed-wood forests in uplands and stunted conifers approaching treeline. Thousands of lakes and wetlands provide breeding habitat for waterfowl. Coasts provide critical shorebird staging areas during fall migration, with millions of birds passing through."
8,"Boreal Softwood Shield","This U-shaped region is over 80% forested with closed conifer stands of white and black spruce, balsam fir, and tamarack. Southern areas include more broadleaf trees and pines. The landscape features rolling uplands with associated wetlands and numerous small-medium lakes. Peatlands are common in wetland areas. Representative birds include American Black Duck, Yellow Rail, Black-backed Woodpecker, and various warblers including Palm, Bay-breasted, and Tennessee. Eastern coastlines support year-round seabird populations."
9,"Great Basin","This large, dry region includes the Northern Basin and Range, Columbia Plateau, and eastern Cascade slopes, lying in the rain shadow of western mountains. Grasslands, sagebrush, and desert shrubs dominate lowlands, with pinyon-juniper and pine forests at higher elevations. Important wetlands support breeding American Avocet, Black-necked Stilt, and migrating shorebirds. Great Salt Lake hosts large waterfowl numbers. Sage Grouse and associated species characterize the sagebrush habitats, while pine forests support White-headed Woodpecker and Flammulated Owl."
10,"Northern Rockies","Encompasses the Northern Rocky Mountains and intermontane basins in the US and Canada. Coniferous forests dominate, varying by elevation from ponderosa pine to alpine fir. Northern areas feature western larch and hemlock. Priority forest birds include Flammulated Owl, Lewis's Woodpecker, and Townsend's Warbler. High-elevation lakes support Barrow's Goldeneye and Trumpeter Swan. Lower valleys contain sagebrush habitat supporting Sage Grouse and Ferruginous Hawk, though much has been degraded by conversion and invasive plants."
11,"Prairie Potholes","This glaciated mixed-grass and tallgrass prairie region is North America's most important waterfowl production area, despite extensive wetland drainage and grassland conversion. Breeding duck densities can exceed 100 pairs per square mile in favorable years. The region provides core breeding range for most dabbling ducks and supports over 200 other bird species. Priority grassland birds include Baird's Sparrow, Sprague's Pipit, and Chestnut-collared Longspur. Continued habitat degradation and fragmentation threaten future suitability for all these species."
12,"Boreal Hardwood Transition","Characterized by coniferous and northern hardwood forests, nutrient-poor soils, and numerous lakes and bogs. All of the world's Kirtland's Warblers breed here, along with most Golden-winged and Connecticut Warblers. Other important forest birds include Black-billed Cuckoo and Rose-breasted Grosbeak. Great Lakes coastal areas support breeding and migrating waterbirds, with Yellow Rail among important wetland species. Islands host large tern colonies. Though breeding ducks are sparse, stable water conditions allow consistent reproductive success."
13,"Lower Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Plain","Covers low-lying areas originally forested with oak-hickory, northern hardwood, and mixed-coniferous forests, though little remains due to agriculture. Cerulean Warbler is the highest forest priority. Agricultural areas now provide the Northeast's largest grassland habitat for species like Henslow's Sparrow and Bobolink. The region is extremely important for stopover migrants, with some of eastern North America's largest concentrations of migrant birds. Much migration occurs along threatened lakeshore habitats."
14,"Atlantic Northern Forest","Nutrient-poor soils support spruce-fir forests on northern and higher sites, with northern hardwoods elsewhere. Virtually all Bicknell's Thrush breed on mountaintops here. Other important forest birds include Canada Warbler and Bay-breasted Warbler. Coastal wetlands host Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow, while rocky shores support wintering Purple Sandpipers. Common Eiders breed coastally, and Leach's Storm-Petrels nest on offshore islands. Undisturbed inland waters provide excellent waterfowl breeding habitat, especially for American Black Duck."
15,"Sierra Nevada","This mountain range rises sharply from the Great Basin and slopes toward California's Central Valley. Lower elevations feature ponderosa pine (west) and lodgepole pine (east), with fir, spruce, and alpine tundra higher up. The area provides habitat for Hermit Warbler and White-headed Woodpecker at higher elevations, and Nuttall's Woodpecker, Oak Titmouse, and California Thrasher on western slopes. Mountain Quail inhabit the higher elevations."
16,"Southern Rockies/Colorado Plateau","This topographically complex region includes multiple mountain ranges separated by the Colorado Plateau. Coniferous forests (often lodgepole pine) with aspen dominate higher elevations, replaced by pinyon-juniper at lower elevations. Important birds segregate by elevation: Brown-capped Rosy-Finch in alpine areas, Williamson's Sapsucker in conifers, and Gray Vireo in pinyon-juniper. High plains provide critical Mountain Plover habitat. San Luis Valley wetlands support high waterfowl densities and migrating Sandhill Cranes."
17,"Badlands and Prairies","This semi-arid mixed-grass prairie lies west of the glaciated Prairie Pothole region. Continued ranching has preserved many large grassland tracts, supporting healthy populations of dry-grassland birds including Mountain Plover, McCown's Longspur, and Long-billed Curlew. The region's relatively few wetlands, including small livestock impoundments, receive intensive use by upland-nesting waterfowl and broods. This area maintains some of the continent's best habitat for priority grassland species."
18,"Shortgrass Prairie","Located in the Rocky Mountains' rain shadow, arid conditions limit vegetation height and diversity. Some of the continent's highest priority birds breed here: Mountain Plover, Long-billed Curlew, Burrowing Owl, Lark Bunting, and McCown's Longspur. Southern areas winter large numbers of three longspur species. Large rivers create broad wetlands heavily used by migrating waterfowl, shorebirds, and cranes. Playa lakes, when wet, support many wintering ducks and migrant shorebirds. The region includes endemic shinnery shrub communities."
19,"Central Mixed-grass Prairie","Extends from shortgrass prairie westward to tallgrass prairie eastward. Large agricultural conversion has occurred centrally, though excellent grasslands remain in Nebraska Sandhills. This region provides some of the best habitat for Greater Prairie-Chicken, Scissor-tailed Flycatcher, and Grasshopper Sparrow. Major rivers host Interior Least Terns on sandbars. The area is continentally important for shorebird migration, with 90% of White-rumped Sandpipers passing through central Kansas. Nebraska's wetlands stage 10-14 million waterfowl during migration."
20,"Edwards Plateau","This dissected Hill Country of central Texas is bounded by fault lines and grades into desert and plains. Native mesquite, juniper, and oak savanna provides core habitat for endangered Black-capped Vireo and Golden-cheeked Warbler. Other priority birds include Scissor-tailed Flycatcher and Bell's Vireo. Intensive goat grazing has shifted vegetation from grass to thicket dominance. Suburban expansion poses recent threats to bird habitat throughout the region."
21,"Oaks and Prairies","This transition zone between Great Plains and eastern forests features a complex mix of prairie, savanna, cross timbers, and shrubland. Priority landbirds using this woodland-open country mix include Scissor-tailed Flycatcher, Painted Bunting, and Mississippi Kite, with small Black-capped Vireo populations in dense shrub areas. Agriculture and urbanization have severely impacted the region, leaving very little natural habitat available for healthy priority bird populations."
22,"Eastern Tallgrass Prairie","Originally the tallest, most lush grasslands of the Great Plains, with beech-maple forest eastward and oak savanna between. Modern landscape is dominated by agriculture. Threats include urbanization, recreational development, and agricultural expansion. High priority grassland birds persisting in some areas include Greater Prairie-Chicken and Henslow's Sparrow. Cerulean Warblers occupy some wooded areas, while Red-headed Woodpecker leads savanna specialists. Most original prairie and savanna habitat has been lost."
23,"Prairie Hardwood Transition","Originally featured prairies in west and south, beech-maple forest in north and east, separated by oak savanna. Remnant Greater Prairie-Chicken populations persist in grasslands, with Cerulean Warbler and other forest migrants in northeastern areas. Early successional habitat supports Golden-winged Warbler, Henslow's Sparrow, and American Woodcock. Glaciation created numerous wetlands and shallow lakes. This region ranks second to Prairie Potholes for breeding waterfowl densities, supporting Mallard, Blue-winged Teal, Wood Duck, and Redhead."
24,"Central Hardwoods","The Ozark Mountains and Interior Low Plateaus are bisected by Mississippi River floodplains. Oak-hickory deciduous forest dominates, inhabited by interior forest species like Cerulean Warbler, Worm-eating Warbler, and Louisiana Waterthrush. Among the most extensive middle-continent forests, likely serving as source populations. Eastern Bewick's Wren finds its last major stronghold here. Wood Ducks are primary breeding waterfowl, but the region holds greater significance as migratory staging area for large waterfowl concentrations."
25,"West Gulf Coastal Plain/Ouachitas","Pines dominate this area - shortleaf pine north (including Ouachita Mountains) and longleaf pine south, plus hardwood bottomlands along river drainages. Red-cockaded Woodpecker is the highest priority pine species, along with Bachman's Sparrow and Brown-headed Nuthatch. Native pine forest conversion to industrial loblolly plantations provides some bird habitat but less value for priority species. This represents the westernmost extension of eastern United States forests."
26,"Mississippi Alluvial Valley","The Lower Mississippi floodplain originally contained Earth's greatest bottomland hardwood forest, subject to massive annual floods. These forested wetlands were the main wintering area for mid-continent waterfowl. Over 100 years of flood control and deforestation for agriculture has left less than 25% forested with 90% flood reduction. Despite changes, the region still winters large waterfowl numbers (9% of continental duck population). Remnant forests harbor Swainson's Warbler, Prothonotary Warbler, and Swallow-tailed Kite."
27,"Southeastern Coastal Plain","Features extensive riverine swamps and Atlantic coastal marshes. Interior forests dominated by longleaf, slash, and loblolly pine. Priority landbirds include Red-cockaded Woodpecker, Painted Bunting, Bachman's Sparrow, Swainson's Warbler, and Swallow-tailed Kite. Coastal areas provide critical habitat for American Oystercatcher and migrating shorebirds like Red Knot. Brown Pelicans and terns breed on offshore islands. Coastal areas winter large numbers of Canvasback, Mallard, Redhead, and most continental Tundra Swans."
28,"Appalachian Mountains","Includes Blue Ridge, Ridge and Valley, Cumberland Plateau, Ohio Hills, and Allegheny Plateau. Rugged terrain features oak-hickory forests at lower elevations and pine-hemlock-spruce-fir combinations higher up. Most segments remain forested despite some agricultural use in flatter areas. Priority forest birds include Cerulean Warbler (low elevations) and Black-throated Blue Warbler (high elevations). Golden-winged Warblers use early successional areas, Henslow's Sparrows occupy grasslands. Large wetland complexes and beaver-created wetlands support Wood Duck breeding."
29,"Piedmont","Transitional between mountainous Appalachians and flat coastal plain, dominated by pine and mixed southern hardwoods. Priority landbirds include Red-cockaded Woodpecker, Bachman's Sparrow, and Brown-headed Nuthatch. Interior wetlands, reservoirs, and rivers provide waterfowl migration and wintering habitat, plus some shorebird habitat. The fragmented patchwork of pasture, woodlots, and suburban sprawl now dominating most of this region creates significant bird conservation challenges."
30,"New England/Mid-Atlantic Coast","This densely populated region was formerly cleared for agriculture but is now mostly forested or residential. Highest priority birds occupy coastal wetlands and beaches: Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrow, Seaside Sparrow, Piping Plover, American Oystercatcher, American Black Duck, and Black Rail. Critical migration sites serve Red Knot, Ruddy Turnstone, and other shorebirds. Most continental Roseate Terns nest on southern New England islands. Estuarine areas winter 65% of American Black Duck populations plus large numbers of other waterfowl."
31,"Peninsular Florida","Northern portions transition from Coastal Plain elements to tropical south Florida. Pine and bottomland birds like Red-cockaded Woodpecker extend into this area. Central scrub-oak Lake Wales Ridge hosts all world's Florida Scrub-Jays. Large wading bird colonies occur throughout, while coastal islands support Brown Pelican and tern breeding populations. South Florida's frost-free climate supports mangroves, everglades, and tropical hammocks. The Everglades contains one of the world's greatest wading-bird concentrations. Coastal waters winter extraordinary numbers of waterfowl and shorebirds."
33,"Sonoran and Mohave Deserts","The Mohave Desert (southeastern California, southern Nevada) adjoins the Sonoran Desert (southwestern Arizona extending into Mexico). This arid region features cacti, desert shrubs, and slow-growing grasses. Colorado River wetlands provide important habitat for ducks, grebes, and American Avocets in the arid southwest. The region centers distribution for Rufous-winged Sparrow, LeConte's Thrasher, Lucy's Warbler, and Abert's Towhee. Riparian areas support Yuma Clapper Rail and Southwestern Willow Flycatcher. Salton Sea hosts large numbers of colonial waterbirds and shorebirds."
34,"Sierra Madre Occidental","This mountain range runs northwest-southeast from Arizona/New Mexico through Mexico, characterized by high elevations and complex topography. Oak-pine, pine, and fir forests occur along the range with semiarid scrub on eastern slopes. Priority species include Rose-throated Becard, Spotted Owl, Golden Eagle, and Thick-billed Parrot. In the US, highest priorities include Red-faced Warbler, Strickland's Woodpecker, and Montezuma Quail. The region serves as an important migration corridor. Significant wetlands like Santiaguillo Lagoon provide wintering habitat for waterfowl."
35,"Chihuahuan Desert","Stretches from Sierra Madre Occidental to Edwards Plateau, covering much of central Mexican Plateau. Arid grasslands and shrublands cover basins, with oak-juniper woodlands and conifers on isolated mountains. Important species include Scaled Quail in lowlands, Bell's Vireo along riparian zones, and Black-capped Vireo in montane scrub. Colima Warbler inhabits a few higher mountains. Rio Grande and adjacent wetlands provide important habitat for Sandhill Cranes, waterfowl, and riparian birds."
36,"Tamaulipan Brushlands","This plain extends from southern Texas into northeastern Mexico. Much original grassland, savanna, and thornscrub has converted to shrubby conditions due to grazing. Distinctive birds include Audubon's Oriole, Buff-bellied Hummingbird, Long-billed Thrasher, and Plain Chachalaca. High priority grassland species include Botteri's Sparrow, Attwater's Prairie-Chicken, and White-tailed Hawk. Wetlands support Black-bellied Whistling-Ducks and diverse wading birds and shorebirds, plus wintering waterfowl."
37,"Gulf Coastal Prairie","Flat grasslands and marshes along the Gulf of Mexico from northern Mexico through Louisiana. Features one of the world's greatest colonial waterbird concentrations, with breeding Reddish Egret, Roseate Spoonbill, Brown Pelican, and numerous herons, egrets, ibis, terns, and skimmers. Provides critical migration habitat for shorebirds and most eastern North American neotropical migrants. Wetlands support breeding Mottled Duck and Purple Gallinule. Winter waterfowl numbers are among continent's highest. Habitat loss from subsidence, sea-level rise, and development threatens wetland wildlife."
38,"Islas Marías","Located in Pacific Ocean off Nayarit, these islands (María Madre, María Magdalena, María Cleofas) plus Isla Isabel range from sea level to 200 meters elevation. Covered by tropical deciduous and subdeciduous forest, they're centers of bird subspecies endemism. Important species include Red-breasted Chat, Mexican Parrotlet, Yellow-headed Parrot, and various hummingbirds and flycatchers. Seabirds include Magnificent Frigatebird, Red-billed Tropicbird, Brown Booby, Blue-footed Booby, and Sooty Tern."
39,"Sierras de Baja California","Comprised of Sierra de Juárez and Sierra de San Pedro Mártir in northern Baja California. Vegetation rises from Mediterranean chaparral to pine-oak and pine forests with elevation. High priority birds include Oak Titmouse, Wrentit, California Thrasher, Western Scrub-Jay, Rufous-crowned Sparrow, Bewick's Wren, California Towhee, Loggerhead Shrike, California Gnatcatcher, California Quail, Mountain Quail, and Mountain Chickadee."
40,"Desierto de Baja California","Includes most of Baja California, featuring flat desert zones, shrublands, and coastal lagoons. Contains El Vizcaíno Biosphere Reserve, Mexico's largest reserve. Desert shrublands and salt marshes provide habitat for California Gnatcatcher, Clapper Rail, Least Tern, Brant, and Western Sandpiper. Lagoon complexes are critical for shorebirds and waterfowl including Brant, terns, and Snowy Plover. Desert scrub areas host endemic Xantus' Hummingbird and Gray Thrasher."
41,"Islas del Golfo de California","About 100 islands and islets in the Gulf of California, important as centers of endemism providing nesting sites for oceanic species and migration corridors. Dry desert climate with Sonoran Desert-like flora. Habitats include desert scrubland, mangrove, coastal dunes, and tropical deciduous forests. Islands support nesting Heermann's and Western Gulls, Brown Pelican, and Osprey. Endemic subspecies include Black-throated Sparrow. Other important species include Red-billed Tropicbird and Xantus' Hummingbird."
42,"Sierra y Planicies de El Cabo","Southern tip of Baja California peninsula, including Sierra la Laguna with desert scrubland and tropical deciduous forest. Endemic birds include Xantus' Hummingbird, Gray Thrasher, San Lucas American Robin subspecies, and Baird's Junco. Estero de San José features diverse habitats serving as last stopover for many aquatic birds and shorebirds migrating to/from southern Mexico. Additional endemics include Cape Pygmy-Owl and Belding's Yellowthroat."
43,"Planicie Costera, Lomeríos y Cañones de Occidente","Extends from eastern Sonora south to coastal Nayarit along Pacific slope of Sierra Madre Occidental. Vegetation mainly includes thorn scrubland, tropical deciduous forest, pine and oak forests, with coastal mangroves and wetlands. Cuenca del Río Yaqui watershed supports approximately 275 bird species in unique tropical-subtropical ravines. Important species include Military Macaw, Thick-billed Kingbird, Rose-throated Becard, and various hummingbirds and woodpeckers. Coastal lagoons provide important wintering waterfowl habitat."
44,"Marismas Nacionales","Located on southern Sinaloa and adjacent Nayarit coast, this Ramsar site features complex coastal lagoons, mangroves, marshes, and swamps fed by seven rivers. More than 70,000 waterfowl and 100,000 shorebirds use this area, including migrants and residents. Key species include Wood Stork, Black-bellied Whistling-Duck, Osprey, Mexican Parrotlet, Lilac-crowned Parrot, and Yellow-headed Parrot. Vegetation includes mangroves, marshes, tropical forests, and halophytic brushlands."
45,"Planicie Costera y Lomeríos del Pacífico Sur","Runs along Mexico's Pacific coast from Nayarit south through Chiapas. Vegetation includes tropical deciduous and semi-deciduous forests, mangroves, desert scrublands, and riparian areas. Many endemic species include Lilac-crowned Parrot, Blue Mockingbird, West Mexican Chachalaca, and various hummingbirds and woodpeckers. Chamela–Cuitzmalá and other protected areas support diverse bird communities including raptors, parrots, and coastal species. Islands off the coast host important seabird breeding colonies."
46,"Sur del Altiplano Mexicano","Located in central Mexico across parts of Querétaro, Hidalgo, Guanajuato, and Michoacán. Historic landscape transformed by human activities, now characterized by shrublands and mixed forests. Sierra de Santa Rosa has 14 oak species and supports priority birds including Ocellated Thrasher, Violet-crowned Hummingbird, Rufous-backed Robin, Blue Mockingbird, Aztec Thrush, and Worthen's Sparrow. The region represents highly modified habitat with limited natural areas remaining."
47,"Eje Neovolcánico Transversal","The Transverse Volcanic Belt runs west-east through central Mexico, including the country's highest peaks like Pico de Orizaba (5,747m). Characterized by pine, pine-oak, and fir forests plus temperate grasslands. Endemic species include Rufous-capped Brush-Finch, Red Warbler, Russet Nightingale-Thrush, and Striped Sparrow. Major cities including Mexico City are located in valleys within this complex. Cloud forests in some areas support specialized species like Slaty Vireo and various wrens."
48,"Sierra Madre Oriental","North-south mountain range in eastern Mexico dividing the Central Plateau from Eastern Coastal Plains. Dominated by oak, pine-oak, and pine forests, cloud forests, and dry scrublands. El Cielo hosts 400 bird species including 13 endemics and important populations of Military Macaw and Maroon-fronted Parrot. Other key areas support endemic species like Russet Nightingale-Thrush, Hooded Yellowthroat, and Crimson-collared Grosbeak. Diverse vegetation types create habitat for numerous specialized species."
49,"Planicie Costera y Lomeríos Secos del Golfo de México","Along Gulf of Mexico in southern Tamaulipas, adjacent Veracruz, and northeastern San Luis Potosí. Vegetation includes tropical forests, thorn forests, grasslands, and desert scrubland. Sierra de Tamaulipas, rising to 1,500m, serves as refuge for many species including Great Black Hawk, various parrots, and Crimson-collared Grosbeak. Northern limit of tropical deciduous forests occurs here. Reservoirs and wetlands support wintering waterfowl and diverse resident species."
50,"Cuenca del Río Balsas","Balsas River Basin located across Morelos, Oaxaca, Guerrero, Puebla, and Michoacán, bounded by major mountain ranges. Vegetation includes tropical deciduous forests and desert scrubland. Sierra de Huautla supports species like Common Black Hawk, Ferruginous Pygmy-Owl, various woodpeckers, and Blue Mockingbird. Infiernillo Reservoir provides important waterfowl habitat. The region hosts specialized dry forest species including Balsas Screech-Owl and Black-chested Sparrow."
51,"Valle de Tehuacán–Cuicatlán","Located in Puebla and Oaxaca, this desert scrubland biosphere reserve hosts almost 3,000 vascular plant species and is a center of columnar cacti endemism (45 of 70 world species). Nearly 30% of flora is endemic, mixing North American arid species with tropical montane species. Priority birds include Boucard's Wren, West Mexican Chachalaca, various hummingbirds, Gray-breasted Woodpecker, Ocellated Thrasher, and specialized sparrows like Bridled and Oaxaca Sparrows."
52,"Planicie Costera y Lomeríos Húmedos del Golfo de México","Half-moon shaped region from central Veracruz through Tabasco, north through Oaxaca and Chiapas, east through Campeche. Vegetation includes tropical evergreen and deciduous forests, oak and pine forests, grasslands, and agricultural areas. Important wetland systems support diverse waterfowl and wading birds. Six Mexican endemic species occur here including Green Parakeet, Red-crowned Parrot, and Tamaulipan Crow. Many areas provide critical habitat for wintering migrants from North America."
53,"Sierra Madre del Sur","Borders Pacific coast from Eje Neovolcánico to Istmo de Tehuantepec, extending 1,200km through multiple states. Mountain ranges feature tropical forests, cloud forests, and pine-oak forests. Sierra de Miahuatlán hosts endemic Blue-capped Hummingbird. Other key areas support numerous endemic species including specialized hummingbirds, woodpeckers, tanagers, and vireos. Cerro Teotepec (3,705m) represents the highest peak in Guerrero. Many isolated areas serve as centers of endemism with restricted-distribution species."
54,"Sierra Norte de Puebla–Oaxaca","Crosses northern Oaxaca and adjacent eastern Puebla and western Veracruz, featuring abrupt relief and peaks to 3,000m. Vegetation includes coniferous, cloud, and tropical deciduous forests. Sierra Norte rises to 3,700m at Cerro de Cempoaltepetl with diverse habitats from tropical rainforest to alpine grasslands. Endemic species include Dwarf Jay, Slender-billed Wren, Oaxaca Sparrow, and various brush-finches and warblers. Complex mountain systems create numerous specialized habitats supporting high endemism."
55,"Planicie Noroccidental de Yucatán","Coastal areas of northern Campeche and northwestern Yucatán featuring coastal dunes, mangrove swamps, halophytic grasslands, and tropical forests. Los Petenes swamp system includes diverse habitats supporting species like Orange Oriole, Yellow-lored Parrot, Jabiru, and Wood Stork. Ría Celestún biosphere reserve hosts Greater Flamingo, Ocellated Turkey, and Yucatan endemics like Yucatan Poorwill and Yucatan Wren. Coastal areas provide important habitat for wintering waterfowl."
56,"Planicie Noroccidental de Yucatán","Covers most of Yucatan Peninsula including parts of Campeche, Quintana Roo, and all of Yucatán. Calakmul, Mexico's largest tropical reserve, shelters 118 protected species and nine regional endemics. Important species include Harpy Eagle, King Vulture, Ocellated Turkey, and Yellow-lored Parrot. Sian Ka'an biosphere reserve features tropical rainforest sloping to sea, with freshwater and brackish swamps. The region includes important flamingo nesting sites at Ría Lagartos."
58,"Altos de Chiapas","Central Chiapas highlands run parallel to Pacific Coast, featuring deep folds called 'cañadas.' Mountain areas support cloud and pine-oak forests hosting Highland Guan, Singing Quail, Blue-throated Motmot, Azure-hooded Jay, and Wine-throated Hummingbird. Cerro Blanco area supports Resplendent Quetzal, Black-throated Jay, and wintering Golden-cheeked Warbler. Lagos de Montebello features pine-oak forests with threatened species like White-crowned Parrot and Emerald Toucanet."
59,"Depresiones Intermontanas","Lowland corridor 250km long and 75km wide bounded by Chiapas mountain ranges. Features cloud forests, tropical rainforests, and tropical deciduous forests. Zapotal–Mactumatza supports over 200 bird species including numerous tropical specialties like Great Curassow, various hummingbirds, and trogons. Corredor Laguna Bélgica area reports 215 bird species with threatened species like Highland Guan and wintering Golden-cheeked Warbler."
60,"Madre de Chiapas","Pacific coast of Chiapas containing Mexico's oldest mountain range, topped by 4,026m volcano on Mexico-Guatemala border. El Tacaná features cloud forest and scrubland supporting Bar-winged Oriole, Mountain Robin, Pink-headed Warbler, and Resplendent Quetzal. La Sepultura serves as transitional zone between Nearctic and Neotropical regions with nine vegetation types. Endemic species include Rose-bellied Bunting and Giant Wren. El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve hosts 390 bird species including Azure-rumped Tanager, Horned Guan, and Wine-throated Hummingbird."
61,"Planicie Costera del Soconusco","Pacific coast of Chiapas featuring La Encrucijada biosphere reserve with large river-formed wetlands. Contains tallest mangroves in Mesoamerica and one of North America's most important Pacific tropical wetland systems. Supports many rare and endangered species including Magnificent Frigatebird, Wood Stork, 15 raptor species, 13 duck species, 15 heron species, and 20 shorebird species. Important for numerous parakeets and parrots. Giant Wren, Rufous-naped Wren, and various warblers also occur here."
62,"Archipiélago de Revillagigedo","Mexico's most remote archipelago off Colima coast, consisting of four volcanic islands: Socorro, Clarión, San Benedicto, and Roca Partida. Clarión and Socorro notable for endemic flora and fauna wealth. Vegetation ranges from Croton scrub to pine forest with cloud forest elements. Endemic species include Townsend's Shearwater, Socorro Mockingbird, Socorro Parakeet, Socorro Dove, Clarion Wren, Socorro Wren, and Socorro Towhee. San Benedicto covered by volcanic ash from 1952 eruption."
63,"Isla Guadalupe","Volcanic archipelago off Baja California coast with steep slopes and mountainous topography to 1,400m elevation. Vegetation includes xerophytic scrubland and forests of endemic cypress with pine and oak. Endemic birds include Guadalupe Junco, Guadalupe Storm-Petrel, and subspecies of American Kestrel and Rock Wren. Other important species include Laysan Albatross, Red-billed Tropicbird, Heermann's Gull, and Cassin's Auklet. Several endemic subspecies are now extinct."
64,"Arrecife Alacranes","Located in Gulf of Mexico northwest of Yucatan Peninsula, this protected area covers 88,084 hectares including five islets and surrounding waters. Vegetation consists of dunes and scrub habitat. Most important Gulf of Mexico breeding site for Sooty Tern, and important breeding area for Brown Noddy and Masked and Brown Boobies. Many birds migrating across the gulf use this as stopover site during fall and spring migrations."
65,"Los Tuxtlas","Central Veracruz coast biosphere reserve including Volcán de San Martín Tuxtla and Sierra de Santa Martha. Features tropical rainforest, cloud and pine forests, early successional growth, grassland, coastal dune, and mangrove habitats. Reports 564 bird species including two found only here: Long-tailed Sabrewing and Tuxtla Quail-Dove. Other important residents include Agami Heron, Crested Guan, and Orange-breasted Falcon. High priority wintering birds include numerous North American warblers."